In this lesson, we will add a life bar for our opponents. Let's get started.
Let's start by creating a blueprint widget called WBP_HealthBar.
We open the asset.
We need one element - ProgressBar, we already use it in the interface of our character.
Let's adjust the dimensions. Let's put small ones (70, 10).
Let's deal with colors.
Find property Percent, filled with blue by default. This can be removed. At the bottom, set the FillColorAndOpacity to white.
And also, if you pay attention, by default the pictures have a gradient, which
looks honestly ugly. I have previously exported the texture, which is
a white square. We can change the image in the ProgressBar. For BackgroundImage, set this
texture to sample. Set the Tint to black and select this texture for the FillImage as well.
Now the picture without gradients and the ProgressBar looks much nicer. Let's first see in blueprints
how we will render the widget above the character. To do this, open the STU_AICharacter asset.
And add a component called WidgetComponent. This is a special component that can
render the UserWidget object. In the details panel, in the property WidgetClass, let's specify the HealthBar.
Set property DrawAsDesiredSize to true and place it above the character.
Let's change the Z coordinate, for example, put 120 units. So the widget is displayed.
It is rendered in 3d space. Let's see how it looks in the game right away.
Let's tweak GameMode a bit. Let's set the number of players = 10. Set the time of the round to 30 seconds.
And completely disable the behavior tree so that the actions of our NPCs do not interfere with us.
Just connect Root to some empty node.
If we run around the enemy character, we will see that the widget is displayed above him. It is rendered in 3d space,
but at certain angles it will be invisible. You can, of course, make the
rotation of this component depending on the position of our camera, but you can do it differently.
In the widget component settings, there is a property called Space.
Change the world parameter to screen. We are testing. Now the widget is rendered in the interface layer,
that is, not in 3d space, but in the character's HUD. This can be seen more clearly
if an object is blocking the enemy. With this setting for displaying the widget, the
life bar of the enemy character will always be visible to our hero. Let's remove this component from the blueprint.
We will now configure everything in C ++. Let's start by creating a class for the HealthBar.
We inherit the class from UserWidget.
We name the class HealthBarWidget.
We finish creating the class.
Let's start with HealthBarWidget. We need a forward declaration for the ProgressBar.
In the protected section, create a property for this UI element.
Let's call it HealthProgressBar. Next, let's add a few parameters to the property
that will visually improve our HealthBar.
The first property will determine the percentage of life at which the enemy's HealthBar will be displayed,
that is, if the percentage of life is greater than this value, then we simply will not show the HealthBar,
we will not clog the screen. Let it be 80 percent by default.
If anything, at any time, in the blueprints, we can edit this value.
The next property will determine the percentage of life at which the color of our ProgressBar begins to change.
That is, when the amount of life decreases to a critical value,
we will set a different ProgressBar color, for example, some shade of red.
Let it be 30 percent by default. And add 2 properties that will be responsible for the colors of the HealthBar.
Let's call the first property GoodColor. Let it be white by default.
And the second is called BadColor.
Let's set the color to red by default.
We need one public function that will transfer the current percentage of lives.
We create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
We need to include one header file that contains the ProgressBar class.
First, we check the pointer to the HealthProgressBar for nullptr, if it is zero, then exit the function.
Next, we create a local variable. It will be of type ESlateVisibility, which means it will be responsible
for the visibility of our HealthProgressBar. We will set Hidden if at least one of the conditions is met: the
current percentage of life is greater than our PercentVisibilityThreshold parameter,
or the character's percentage of life is zero.
Otherwise, HealthBarVisibility will be ESlateVisibility :: Visible.
We call the SetVisibility function.
Let's pass our local variable to the function.
Additionally, we create a local variable HealthBarColor. It will also change its value depending on the percentage.
If it is greater than PercentColorThreshold, then set GoodColor.
If less then BadColor.
The function that sets the fill color is called SetFillColorAndOpacity.
We pass HealthBarColor to this function.
The last thing to do is set the progress as a percentage.
We call the SetPercent function and pass our percentage there.
Let's go to the AICharacter class. Let's create a widget component in it, which we have now created in blueprints.
We make a forward declaration. The component class is named UWidgetComponent.
I will copy the property for the component from the BaseCharacter class. Paste into AICharacter.
We name the property for the HealthWidgetComponent component.
We will also add the BeginPlay function, in which we will check the check for our component.
We need a function that is called when the health percentage changes. We have one in BaseCharacter. It's called OnHealthChanged.
We can make it virtual with you. Also, let's move it to the protected section.
In general, it is empty in BaseCharacter, but if some logic is added, the protected specifier
will provide us with the opportunity to call the parent function. We override it in ASTUAICharacter.
Create a body for BeginPlay.
We create a body for OnHealthChanged.
Let's start by including header files. We need a widget component.
We need the STUHealthBarWidget header file. You will also need the STUHealthComponent header file.
We create HealthWidgetComponent in the constructor of the class.
We attach to the root component.
We can also indicate in the code that we want to use Screen. To do this, call the SetWidgetSpace function
and pass EWidgetSpace :: Screen there. The enum has two elements Screen and World.
Add check to BeginPlay.
In order to get the UserWidget object that we set in the blueprints,
the widget component has a special function called GetUserWidgetObject. It returns a pointer to the UserWidget.
We immediately cast this object to our USTUHealthBarWidget.
if the pointer to HealthBarWidget is null, then exit the function.
And if not, then we transfer the life of our character to the widget. We call the SetHealthPercent function.
And to get the percentage of life, we will use the function of the health component called GetHealthPercent.
We compile the project.
So the HealthWidgetComponent has been created in the AICharacter blueprint.
The class of the widget must be specified. We select WBP_HealthBar. Also, set the property DrawAtDesiredSize to true.
Let's also move the component a little higher. Let's set the coordinate value by Z = 120.
Next, we need to reparent the HealthBar blueprint. Selecting HealthBarWidget.
And rename ProgressBar to HealthProgressBar.
We launch the project. Lives are not displayed because the value is greater than 80 percent. We shoot at the character.
Lives start to show up and disappear because AutoHeal has happened.
If the value is less than 30 percent, then the ProgressBar turns red.
In general, everything looks good. The only moment: when we move away, then this widget will be gigantic.
Let's make it so that if we are far enough from the enemy, then the widget also becomes invisible.
We have a single-player game with you, so the solution is quite simple.
In the Tick function, we will determine the distance to the PlayerCharacter, and if this distance is
greater than a certain parameter, then we will make the widget invisible. Create a property
in which we will store the distance at which the widget becomes invisible.
Let it be 1000 units by default.
Override the actor's Tick function. For optimization purposes, this can be done using a separate timer
to update the visibility not every frame, but after a certain time, for example, 1 second.
But this is again information for thought. Now we do it in the easiest way.
Also, in the private section, we will create a function to encapsulate this logic.
We create the body of the Tick function.
We create the body of the UpdateHealthWidgetVisibility function.
We can immediately add its call to the Tick function.
The function to get the playercontroller pointer is in the UWorld object. It's called GetFirstPlayerController.
With a pointer to a controller, we can get a pointer to pawn. Let's use the GetPawn function.
And then we will use the GetActorLocation function of the actor.
That is, in this way, we wrote the current position of our PlayerCharacter to the PlayerLocation variable.
Next, we determine the distance between the position of the PlayerCharacter and the position of the AICharacter.
To do this, we will use the Distance function of the FVector class and pass the PlayerLocation there.
and so is the value returned by the GetActorLocation function. That is, the position of the current AICharacter.
Given a given distance value, we can change the Visibility of the widget component.
That is, the component is visible if and only if distance is less than our HealthVisibilityDistance parameter.
Let's set the second parameter to true, although it doesn't matter, we don't have any child components.
At the beginning of the function, we need to check that all pointers are nonzero.
Let's also set the DrawAtDesiredSize flag to true in the constructor.
For this purpose, the widget component has a special function SetDrawAtDesiredSize.
We pass true to it. We compile the project.
Checking. We shoot at the character. Let's run away and the widget disappears. Let's check again. Now we are getting closer.
The widget appears. So much better. The last point in this lesson. When we die and become an observer.
The GetPawn function will return a null pointer, and therefore Visibiltiy will not be updated for us.
Roughly speaking, the component widget will have the Visibiltiy that was installed
at the last moment: that is, either we were close, next to the character, then it will be visible.
Or, if it is far away, the widget will be invisible. The GetPawn function is a function
of the AController base class that returns a Pawn. The PlayerController additionally has a SpectatorPawn
that stores a pointer to the observer pawn. PlayerController has a special function
called GetPawnOrSpectator. It returns a pointer to a Pawn, if it is non-zero,
or returns a pointer to a SpectatorPawn, that is, we can use this function,
and regardless of whether we died or not, the Visibility for the widget will be
set either relative to our Pawn or relative to SpectatorPawn.